
React 声明式编程 declarative
JS 命令式编程 imperative


`<script src="" defer type="module"> </script>` 
defer确保js在所有html加载完以后再加载
module用import


### import方式
util.js
```js
export default "11";
export let abc = "abc";
export let de = "de";
```

```js
import {abc, de} from "./util" //解构导入

import * as util from "./util" //对象导入
util.abc;
util.de

import {abc as content, de: index} from "./util" //解构导入加alias
```

### 函数

函数构建的时候可以给一个default参数，不传参的时候就用default参数

```js
function greetings (userName, message = "Hello"){
	console.log(userName);
	console.log(message);
}

greetings("Jhon");  //Jhon Hello
greetings("Jhonny","Hi"); //Jhon Hi
```

这里的userName必须传参，而message不传参就用默认的hello

#### 箭头函数
More on the Arrow Function Syntax

When working with **Arrow Functions**, you have a couple of _"syntax shortcuts"_ available.

Most importantly, you should know about the following alternatives:

**1) Omitting parameter list parentheses**

If your arrow functions takes **exactly one parameter**, you may **omit** the wrapping parentheses.

Instead of

1. (userName) => { ... }

you could write

1. userName => { ... }

**Please note:** 

- If your function takes **no parameters**, parentheses **must not be omitted** - `() => { ... }` is the **only correct form** in that case.
    
- If your function takes **more than one parameter**, you also **must not omit** parentheses - `userName, userAge => { ... }` would be invalid (`(userName, userAge) => { ... }` is correct)!
    

**2) Omitting function body curly braces**

If your arrow function contains **no other logic but a** `**return**` **statement**, you may **omit the curly braces** and the `return` keyword.

Instead of

1. number => { 
2.   return number * 3;
3. }

you could write

1. number => number * 3;

The following code would be invalid:

1. number => return number * 3; // invalid because return keyword must also be omitted!

1. number => if (number === 2) { return 5 }; // invalid because if statements can't be returned

**3) Special case: Just returning an object**

If you go for the shorter alternative explained in 2) and you're trying to return a **JavaScript object**, you may end up with the following, **invalid** code:

1. number => { age: number }; // trying to return an object

This code would be invalid because JavaScript treats the curly braces as **function body wrappers** (not as code that creates a JS object).

To _"tell"_ JavaScript that an object should be created (and returned) instead, the code would need to be adjusted like this:

1. number => ({ age: number }); // wrapping the object in extra parentheses
2. 
==重要：return一个对象一定要用小括号括起来==

By wrapping the object and its curly braces with an **extra pair of parentheses**, JavaScript understands that the curly braces are not there to define a function body but instead to create an object. Hence that object then gets returned.

Arrow function syntax may look strange but it's actually simple.

1. function callMe(name) { 
2.     console.log(name);
3. }

which you could also write as:

1. const callMe = function(name) { 
2.     console.log(name);
3. }

becomes: 

1. const callMe = (name) => { 
2.     console.log(name);
3. }

**Important:** 

When having **no arguments**, you have to use empty parentheses in the function declaration:

1. const callMe = () => { 
2.     console.log('Max!');
3. }

When having **exactly one argument**, you may omit the parentheses:

1. const callMe = name => { 
2.     console.log(name);
3. }

When **just returning a value**, you can use the following shortcut:

1. const returnMe = name => name

That's equal to:

1. const returnMe = name => { 
2.     return name;
3. }

扩展阅读
[Arrow function expressions - JavaScript | MDN (mozilla.org)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions#No_binding_of_this)


### Object
object里可以存储函数，并且这个函数可以通过this调用对象里的其他值

```js
const user = {
	name:"Max",
	age:34,
	greeting(){
		console.log("Hello",this.max)
	}
}

user.greeting();
```

### Class

class是一个蓝图，调用可构建实例object，开头需要大写

```js
class User{
	constructor(name,age){
		this.name = name;
		this.age = age;
	}
	greeting(){
	console.log("Hi!")
	}
}
const user1 = new User("Max",34);
console.log(user1.greeting())
```

### map

```js
function transformToObjects(numberArray) {
    // var result = [];
    // numberArray.map((number)=>{
    //     result.push({val:number});
    // }) 
    //以上为傻逼写法，实际map就可以将array映射成另一个array而不需要额外的push
    const result = numberArray.map((number) => ({val:number}));
    
    return result;
}
```

### for

```js
for(const list of lists){
	console.log(list)
}
```

### 函数作为参数传递给函数

```js
function handler(exampleFunction){
	exampleFunction();
}

handler(()=>console.log("Hi"));
handler(()=>console.log("Hello"));
```

### Primitive value VS. Reference values

string、number、boolean值都是primitive value，他们不能被修改，修改值的时候实际上是抛弃了原来的值，创建一个新的，被覆写了。
```js
let number = 1;
number = 2; //这里实际上抛弃了原来的number，创建了一个新的number
```
而reference value实际上是记录地址
因此`const list = []`以后可以push这个列表也是因为记录了地址而非值，const不意味着值不能修改，而是不能被覆写，所以const以后不能写`list = ["aa"]`而可以写`list.push("aa")`

`let`  and `const`  basically replace `var` . You use `let`  instead of `var`  and `const`  instead of `var`  if you plan on never re-assigning this "variable" (effectively turning it into a constant therefore).

